Do you gossip? No? Well, whenever we share any news about others, that is a form of gossip.
Because we are interested in others, we might say, I'm really concerned about Brother
Smith's health. Or did you hear about Sister Brown's experience in the ministry? Is this
type of gossip harmful? Generally not. Still, we need to be careful. At 1 Timothy 513, Paul
spoke out against certain sisters who were gossipers and medallers in other people's affairs.
We do not need to know and share everything we know about what's happening in other people's
lives. What if, for example, Brother Smith did not want others to know details about his
health problem? We need to respect the privacy of others. Or what if talking about Sister
Brown's experience turns into, oh, you know, she always brags about her success in the
ministry. When I talk about others, turns negative. It can develop into slander. Slander
is making deliberate fault statements that damage another's reputation. Let's now consider
how harmful gossip wrecks peace. If you have spread harmful gossip about someone and he hears
about it, when you see him the next time, what will be the look on his face? Please read
with me Proverbs 25-23. The North Wind brings a downpour and a gossiping tongue brings an angry
face. The North Wind in Palestine brought dark clouds and rain. Likewise, when the one you gossiped
about catches wind of this and he sees you, he will have a gloomy, angry face. There will be
a storm and a chilled relationship. Now, when that happens, he may feel very badly and apologize,
but you may have damaged his reputation in a way that may be difficult to undo. Listen to this
old Jewish story. A man went about town slandering the town's wise man. Later, the malicious
gossiper realized his wrong and went to the wise man and asked for his forgiveness. He offered
whatever was needed to make a man's. The wise man made one request. He told the gossiper to take
a feather pillow, cut it open, and scatter the feathers to the wind. The gossiper was
puzzled by this request, but he did as instructed. Then he returned to the wise man. Am I now forgiven
yes? First, go and gather all the feathers. The wise man responded. But how can I? The wind has
already scattered them. The wise man replied, it is as difficult to repair the damage done by your
words as it is to recover the feathers. Yes, once spoken, hurtful words cannot be retrieved.
Let's not scatter feathers in the wind. If we spread rumors, it can seriously disturb the
piece of many in the congregation. We find an example of this at Acts 21, verses 20 and 21.
The older men of the Jerusalem congregation explained to Paul that some Jews had spread a rumor
among Jewish Christians that he had been teaching an apostasy, speaking against the law of Moses.
Of course, this was a twisting of the facts. Paul never spoke disrespectfully of the law.
He even went to synagogues where he reasoned on the basis of the Hebrew scriptures.
Such stories could have led some newly converted Jewish Christians to think that Paul did not
respect God's arrangements, and this could have seriously disrupted the piece of the congregation.
In the following dramatization, notice the effect that harmful gossip can have on the piece
in a congregation. Especially as a pioneer. What kind of example is she setting?
Has Emily stopped following her? No, not yet, but she probably will. Alistair, what do you think?
About what? Haley's posts on a quick post. Is there a problem? Emily's told me,
they're all just look at me, my clothes, my hair, my makeup, and even senior agrees with her.
Well, it's very easy to take things out of context on social media. I know that I've done that
and realized later that I was wrong. Yeah, that's a good point.
Listen, I don't want to pull you away, but if you have a minute, would you mind giving me a hand
with these boxes? Sure. Thanks for your help. No problem.
Jake, back in the hall, I know you were just expressing concern, but here's something to consider.
This principle is one of my favourites. It's found in Proverbs chapter 18 and verse 17.
The first to state his case seems right until the other party comes and cross-examines it,
and he's trying to understand. It just means that sometimes we only hear one side of a story,
and until we personally hear both, it's best not to draw any conclusions.
And even then, if it's something negative, we wouldn't want to spread it.
Any more than we want something spread about ourselves. I'm going to apologise to Harry and Marie
and have Emily talk directly to Haley. Good idea. Did you notice what Jake said
after the elder graciously helped him reason on Proverbs 18, 17? He said, I had not considered that.
Yes. Jake just did not stop and think before he said those negative things about Haley.
So how can we put away harmful gossip before it begins? Let's read Proverbs 15, 28.
The heart of the righteous one meditates before answering,
but the mouth of the wicked blurs out bad things. So before we say bad things about others,
we need to meditate. Though this does not mean a long drawn out process, it just requires a little thought.
What thoughts could have stopped Jake from repeating his wife's negative view of Haley's post?
He could have asked himself, is what I am about to say true? Is it kind, loving? How will Harry and Marie
view Haley if they hear those negative things about her? Another principle that will help us to
put away harmful gossip is the so-called golden rule as recorded at Luke 631. Jesus said,
just as you want men to do to you, do the same to them. This means showing empathy,
putting ourselves in the place of the other person, asking ourselves, how would I feel if someone
said this about me? One situation that may tempt us to engage in harmful gossip is when we believe
we have been wronged by someone. Instead of applying the counsel at Matthew 5, 23, and 24,
and chapter 18, verse 15, to talk to the person privately, we could start talking about it to others
who are not involved. Imagine if after finally talking with the person you find out he actually
did not wrong you at all. You have made the situation much worse. But whether we are right or wrong,
engaging in hurtful speech will never improve a situation.
Gossip requires a speaker and a listener. Is it wrong to listen to harmful gossip?
Yes, know what Proverbs 174 says. A wicked man pays attention to hurtful speech,
and a deceptive man listens to a malicious tongue. Think about that.
In God's eyes, if we listen to hurtful and malicious speech, we too bear a heavy responsibility.
By listening to the Gossiper, we are encouraging him to go on.
So what should you do? Without taking on an air of self-righteousness, you could simply say,
let's change the subject. Or I don't really feel comfortable talking about this.
After all, she is not here to defend herself. And if we find that her brother or sister
likes to gossip, we may find it easier to avoid harmful gossip by stopping close association
with that person. Proverbs 20 verse 19, frankly, councils do not associate with one who loves to gossip.
So dear friends, let's put away harmful gossip, doing so we will maintain our precious peace and
unity. Brother Kenneth Cook, a member of the governing body, will now present the final talk of
this symposium, put away peace records, uncontrolled anger.